/*
Author: Fernando Zuher
Place: Brazil
Date: 20 June 2020
Book: Java The Complete Reference, 11th Edition. Author: Herbert Schildt.
About: Summary*, Chapter 11 - Multithreaded Programming

* Most of the text was drawn literally from the chapter.

*/

Java provides built-in support for multithreaded programming. A multithreaded
program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently. Each part of such
a program is called a thread, and each thread defines a separate path of
execution. Thus, multithreading is a specialized form of multitasking.

...there are two distinct types
of multitasking: process-based and thread-based. It is important to understand
the difference between the two. For many readers, process-based multitasking is
the more familiar form. A process is, in essence, a program that is executing.
Thus, process-based multitasking is the feature that allows your computer to run
two or more programs concurrently. For example, process-based multitasking
enables you to run the Java compiler at the same time that you are using a text
editor or visiting a web site. In process-based multitasking, a program is the
smallest unit of code that can be dispatched by the scheduler.
In a thread-based multitasking environment, the thread is the smallest unit of
dispatchable code. This means that a single program can perform two or more
tasks simultaneously. For instance, a text editor can format text at the same time
that it is printing, as long as these two actions are being performed by two
separate threads. Thus, process-based multitasking deals with the “big picture,”
and thread-based multitasking handles the details.

The Java Thread Model

	Threads exist in several states. Here is a general description. A thread can be
	running. It can be ready to run as soon as it gets CPU time. A running thread can
	be suspended, which temporarily halts its activity. A suspended thread can then
	be resumed, allowing it to pick up where it left off. A thread can be blocked
	when waiting for a resource. At any time, a thread can be terminated, which
	halts its execution immediately. Once terminated, a thread cannot be resumed.

	Thread Priorities
		
		Java assigns to each thread a priority that determines how that thread should be
		treated with respect to the others. Thread priorities are integers that specify the
		relative priority of one thread to another. As an absolute value, a priority is
		meaningless; a higher-priority thread doesn’t run any faster than a lower-priority
		thread if it is the only thread running. Instead, a thread’s priority is used to
		decide when to switch from one running thread to the next. This is called a
		context switch.

		CAUTION Portability problems can arise from the differences in the way that operating systems context-
		switch threads of equal priority.

	Synchronization

		Because multithreading introduces an asynchronous behavior to your programs,
		there must be a way for you to enforce synchronicity when you need it. For
		example, if you want two threads to communicate and share a complicated data
		structure, such as a linked list, you need some way to ensure that they don’t
		conflict with each other. That is, you must prevent one thread from writing data
		while another thread is in the middle of reading it. For this purpose, Java
		implements an elegant twist on an age-old model of interprocess
		synchronization: the monitor. The monitor is a control mechanism first defined
		by C.A.R. Hoare. You can think of a monitor as a very small box that can hold
		only one thread. Once a thread enters a monitor, all other threads must wait until
		that thread exits the monitor. In this way, a monitor can be used to protect a
		shared asset from being manipulated by more than one thread at a time.

		In Java, there is no class “Monitor”; instead, each object has its own implicit
		monitor that is automatically entered when one of the object’s synchronized
		methods is called. Once a thread is inside a synchronized method, no other
		thread can call any other synchronized method on the same object. This enables
		you to write very clear and concise multithreaded code, because synchronization
		support is built into the language.

	Messaging

		After you divide your program into separate threads, you need to define how
		they will communicate with each other. When programming with some other
		languages, you must depend on the operating system to establish communication
		between threads. This, of course, adds overhead. By contrast, Java provides a
		clean, low-cost way for two or more threads to talk to each other, via calls to
		predefined methods that all objects have. Java’s messaging system allows a
		thread to enter a synchronized method on an object, and then wait there until
		some other thread explicitly notifies it to come out.

	The Thread Class and the Runnable Interface
	
		Java’s multithreading system is built upon the Thread class, its methods, and its
		companion interface, Runnable. Thread encapsulates a thread of execution.
		Since you can’t directly refer to the ethereal state of a running thread, you will
		deal with it through its proxy, the Thread instance that spawned it. To create a
		new thread, your program will either extend Thread or implement the
		Runnable interface.

		The Thread class defines several methods that help manage threads. Several
		of those used in this chapter are shown here:
			getName()
			getPriority()
			isAlive()
			join()
			run()
			sleep()
			start()

	The Main Thread

		When a Java program starts up, one thread begins running immediately. This is
		usually called the main thread of your program, because it is the one that is
		executed when your program begins. The main thread is important for two
		reasons:
			• It is the thread from which other “child” threads will be spawned.
			• Often, it must be the last thread to finish execution because it performs
			various shutdown actions.

		Although the main thread is created automatically when your program is
		started, it can be controlled through a Thread object. To do so, you must obtain
		a reference to it by calling the method currentThread(), which is a public
		static member of Thread. Its general form is shown here:
			
			static Thread currentThread()
		
		This method returns a reference to the thread in which it is called. Once you
		have a reference to the main thread, you can control it just like any other thread.

		Notice the output produced when t is used as an argument to println(). This
		displays, in order: the name of the thread, its priority, and the name of its group.
		By default, the name of the main thread is main. Its priority is 5, which is the
		default value, and main is also the name of the group of threads to which this
		thread belongs. A thread group is a data structure that controls the state of a
		collection of threads as a whole.

		The sleep() method causes the thread from which it is called to
		suspend execution for the specified period of milliseconds. Its general form is
		shown here:
			static void sleep(long milliseconds) throws InterruptedException

		The sleep() method has a second form, shown next, which allows you to
		specify the period in terms of milliseconds and nanoseconds:
			
			static void sleep(long milliseconds, int nanoseconds) throws InterruptedException

		This second form is useful only in environments that allow timing periods as
		short as nanoseconds.

			final void setName(String threadName)
			final String getName()

Creating a Thread
	
	In the most general sense, you create a thread by instantiating an object of type
	Thread. Java defines two ways in which this can be accomplished:
		• You can implement the Runnable interface.
		• You can extend the Thread class, itself.


	The following two sections look at each method, in turn.
	
	Implementing Runnable
	
		The easiest way to create a thread is to create a class that implements the
		Runnable interface. Runnable abstracts a unit of executable code. You can
		construct a thread on any object that implements Runnable. To implement
		Runnable, a class need only implement a single method called run(), which is
		declared like this:
		
			public void run()

		Inside run(), you will define the code that constitutes the new thread. It is
		important to understand that run() can call other methods, use other classes, and
		declare variables, just like the main thread can. The only difference is that run()
		establishes the entry point for another, concurrent thread of execution within
		your program. This thread will end when run() returns.
		
		After you create a class that implements Runnable, you will instantiate an
		object of type Thread from within that class. Thread defines several
		constructors. The one that we will use is shown here:
		
			Thread(Runnable threadOb, String threadName)

		In this constructor, threadOb is an instance of a class that implements the
		Runnable interface. This defines where execution of the thread will begin. The
		name of the new thread is specified by threadName.
		
		After the new thread is created, it will not start running until you call its
		start() method, which is declared within Thread. In essence, start() initiates a
		call to run(). The start() method is shown here:
			
			void start()

	Extending Thread
		
		The second way to create a thread is to create a new class that extends Thread,
		and then to create an instance of that class. The extending class must override
		the run() method, which is the entry point for the new thread. As before, a call
		to start() begins execution of the new thread.

			ExtendThread.java

		Notice the call to super() inside NewThread. This invokes the following
		form of the Thread constructor:
			public Thread(String threadName)
		Here, threadName specifies the name of the thread.

	Choosing an Approach
		
		At this point, you might be wondering why Java has two ways to create child
		threads, and which approach is better. The answers to these questions turn on the
		same point. The Thread class defines several methods that can be overridden by
		a derived class. Of these methods, the only one that must be overridden is run().
		This is, of course, the same method required when you implement Runnable.
		Many Java programmers feel that classes should be extended only when they are
		being enhanced or adapted in some way. So, if you will not be overriding any of
		Thread’s other methods, it is probably best simply to implement Runnable.
		Also, by implementing Runnable, your thread class does not need to inherit
		Thread, making it free to inherit a different class. Ultimately, which approach to
		use is up to you. However, throughout the rest of this chapter, we will create
		threads by using classes that implement Runnable.

Creating Multiple Threads

	NewThread nt1 = new NewThread("One");
	NewThread nt2 = new NewThread("Two");
	NewThread nt3 = new NewThread("Three");

		MultiThreadDemo.java

Using isAlive() and join()
	
	Two ways exist to determine whether a thread has finished. First, you can call
	isAlive() on the thread. This method is defined by Thread, and its general form
	is shown here:
		
		final boolean isAlive()
	
	The isAlive() method returns true if the thread upon which it is called is still
	running. It returns false otherwise.
	
	While isAlive() is occasionally useful, the method that you will more
	commonly use to wait for a thread to finish is called join(), shown here:
		
		final void join() throws InterruptedException
	
	This method waits until the thread on which it is called terminates. Its name
	comes from the concept of the calling thread waiting until the specified thread
	joins it. Additional forms of join() allow you to specify a maximum amount of
	time that you want to wait for the specified thread to terminate.

		DemoJoin.java

Thread Priorities

	To set a thread’s priority, use the setPriority() method, which is a member of
	Thread. This is its general form:

		final void setPriority(int level)

	Here, level specifies the new priority setting for the calling thread. The value of
	level must be within the range MIN_PRIORITY and MAX_PRIORITY.
	Currently, these values are 1 and 10, respectively. To return a thread to default
	priority, specify NORM_PRIORITY, which is currently 5. These priorities are
	defined as static final variables within Thread.
	
	You can obtain the current priority setting by calling the getPriority()
	method of Thread, shown here:
		
		final int getPriority()

	Implementations of Java may have radically different behavior when it comes
	to scheduling. Most of the inconsistencies arise when you have threads that are
	relying on preemptive behavior, instead of cooperatively giving up CPU time.
	The safest way to obtain predictable, cross-platform behavior with Java is to use
	threads that voluntarily give up control of the CPU.
	
Synchronization

	When two or more threads need access to a shared resource, they need some way to ensure that the resource will be used by only one thread at a time. The process
	by which this is achieved is called synchronization. As you will see, Java
	provides unique, language-level support for it.

	Key to synchronization is the concept of the monitor. A monitor is an object
	that is used as a mutually exclusive lock. Only one thread can own a monitor at a
	given time. When a thread acquires a lock, it is said to have entered the monitor.
	All other threads attempting to enter the locked monitor will be suspended until
	the first thread exits the monitor. These other threads are said to be waiting for
	the monitor.

	You can synchronize your code in either of two ways. Both involve the use of
	the synchronized keyword, and both are examined here.

	Using Synchronized Methods

		To enter an object’s monitor, just call a method
		that has been modified with the synchronized keyword. While a thread is inside
		a synchronized method, all other threads that try to call it (or any other
		synchronized method) on the same instance have to wait. To exit the monitor and
		relinquish control of the object to the next waiting thread, the owner of the
		monitor simply returns from the synchronized method.

			Synch.java

			[Hello[Synchronized[World]
			]
			]

		As you can see, by calling sleep(), the call() method allows execution to switch
		to another thread. This results in the mixed-up output of the three message
		strings. In this program, nothing exists to stop all three threads from calling the
		same method, on the same object, at the same time. This is known as a race
		condition, because the three threads are racing each other to complete the
		method. This example used sleep() to make the effects repeatable and obvious.
		In most situations, a race condition is more subtle and less predictable, because
		you can’t be sure when the context switch will occur. This can cause a program
		to run right one time and wrong the next.
		
		To fix the preceding program, you must serialize access to call(). That is, you
		must restrict its access to only one thread at a time. To do this, you simply need
		to precede call()’s definition with the keyword synchronized, as shown here:

		synchronized void call(String msg) {
			...
		}

		This prevents other threads from entering call() while another thread is using it.
		After synchronized has been added to call(), the output of the program is as
		follows:

			[Hello]
			[Synchronized]
			[World]

		Any time that you have a method, or group of methods, that manipulates the
		internal state of an object in a multithreaded situation, you should use the
		synchronized keyword to guard the state from race conditions. Remember, once
		a thread enters any synchronized method on an instance, no other thread can
		enter any other synchronized method on the same instance. However,
		nonsynchronized methods on that instance will continue to be callable.

	The synchronized Statement

		While creating synchronized methods within classes that you create is an easy
		and effective means of achieving synchronization, it will not work in all cases.
		To understand why, consider the following. Imagine that you want to
		synchronize access to objects of a class that was not designed for multithreaded
		access. That is, the class does not use synchronized methods. Further, this class
		was not created by you, but by a third party, and you do not have access to the
		source code. Thus, you can’t add synchronized to the appropriate methods
		within the class. How can access to an object of this class be synchronized?
		Fortunately, the solution to this problem is quite easy: You simply put calls to the
		methods defined by this class inside a synchronized block.
		
		This is the general form of the synchronized statement:

			synchronized(objRef) {
				// statements to be synchronized
			}

		Here, objRef is a reference to the object being synchronized. A synchronized
		block ensures that a call to a synchronized method that is a member of objRef’s
		class occurs only after the current thread has successfully entered objRef’s
		monitor.
		Here is an alternative version of the preceding example, using a synchronized
		block within the run() method:

			public void run() {
				synchronized(target) {
					target.call();
				}
			}

		Here, the call() method is not modified by synchronized. Instead, the
		synchronized statement is used inside Caller’s run() method. This causes the
		same correct output as the preceding example, because each thread waits for the
		prior one to finish before proceeding.

Interthread Communication

	The preceding examples unconditionally blocked other threads from
	asynchronous access to certain methods. This use of the implicit monitors in
	Java objects is powerful, but you can achieve a more subtle level of control
	through interprocess communication. As you will see, this is especially easy in
	Java.
	
	As discussed earlier, multithreading replaces event loop programming by
	dividing your tasks into discrete, logical units. Threads also provide a secondary
	benefit: they do away with polling. Polling is usually implemented by a loop that
	is used to check some condition repeatedly. Once the condition is true,
	appropriate action is taken. This wastes CPU time. For example, consider the
	classic queuing problem, where one thread is producing some data and another is
	consuming it. To make the problem more interesting, suppose that the producer
	has to wait until the consumer is finished before it generates more data. In a
	polling system, the consumer would waste many CPU cycles while it waited for
	the producer to produce. Once the producer was finished, it would start polling,
	wasting more CPU cycles waiting for the consumer to finish, and so on. Clearly,
	this situation is undesirable.

	To avoid polling, Java includes an elegant interprocess communication
	mechanism via the wait(), notify(), and notifyAll() methods. These methods
	are implemented as final methods in Object, so all classes have them. All three
	methods can be called only from within a synchronized context. Although
	conceptually advanced from a computer science perspective, the rules for using
	these methods are actually quite simple:
		• wait() tells the calling thread to give up the monitor and go to sleep
		until some other thread enters the same monitor and calls notify() or
		notifyAll().
		• notify() wakes up a thread that called wait() on the same object.
		• notifyAll() wakes up all the threads that called wait() on the same
		object. One of the threads will be granted access.
	
	These methods are declared within Object, as shown here:
		final void wait() throws InterruptedException
		final void notify()
		final void notify All()
	
	Additional forms of wait() exist that allow you to specify a period of time to
	wait.

	Before working through an example that illustrates interthread
	communication, an important point needs to be made. Although wait() normally
	waits until notify() or notifyAll() is called, there is a possibility that in very
	rare cases the waiting thread could be awakened due to a spurious wakeup. In
	this case, a waiting thread resumes without notify() or notifyAll() having been
	called. (In essence, the thread resumes for no apparent reason.) Because of this
	remote possibility, the Java API documentation recommends that calls to wait()
	should take place within a loop that checks the condition on which the thread is
	waiting. The following example shows this technique.

		PC.java

	Although the put( ) and get( ) methods on Q are synchronized, nothing stops the
	producer from overrunning the consumer, nor will anything stop the consumer
	from consuming the same queue value twice. Thus, you get the erroneous output
	shown here (the exact output will vary with processor speed and task load):

		Put: 1
		Got: 1
		Got: 1
		Got: 1
		Got: 1
		Got: 1
		Put: 2
		Put: 3
		Put: 4
		Put: 5
		Put: 6
		Put: 7
		Got: 7

	The proper way to write this program in Java is to use wait( ) and notify( ) to
	signal in both directions, as shown here:

		PCFixed.java

	Inside get( ), wait( ) is called. This causes its execution to suspend until
	Producer notifies you that some data is ready. When this happens, execution
	inside get( ) resumes. After the data has been obtained, get( ) calls notify( ). This
	tells Producer that it is okay to put more data in the queue. Inside put( ), wait( )
	suspends execution until Consumer has removed the item from the queue.
	When execution resumes, the next item of data is put in the queue, and notify( )
	is called. This tells Consumer that it should now remove it.
	
	Here is some output from this program, which shows the clean synchronous
	behavior:

		Put: 1
		Got: 1
		Put: 2
		Got: 2
		Put: 3
		Got: 3
		Put: 4
		Got: 4
		Put: 5
		Got: 5

Deadlock

	A special type of error that you need to avoid that relates specifically to
	multitasking is deadlock, which occurs when two threads have a circular
	dependency on a pair of synchronized objects. For example, suppose one thread
	enters the monitor on object X and another thread enters the monitor on object Y.
	If the thread in X tries to call any synchronized method on Y, it will block as
	expected. However, if the thread in Y, in turn, tries to call any synchronized
	method on X, the thread waits forever, because to access X, it would have to
	release its own lock on Y so that the first thread could complete. Deadlock is a
	difficult error to debug for two reasons:
		• In general, it occurs only rarely, when the two threads time-slice in just
		the right way.
		• It may involve more than two threads and two synchronized objects.
		(That is, deadlock can occur through a more convoluted sequence of events
		than just described.)

		Deadlock.java

	Because the program has deadlocked, you need to press CTRL-C to end the
	program. You can see a full thread and monitor cache dump by pressing CTRL-
	BREAK on a PC. You will see that RacingThread owns the monitor on b, while it
	is waiting for the monitor on a. At the same time, MainThread owns a and is
	waiting to get b. This program will never complete. As this example illustrates,
	if your multithreaded program locks up occasionally, deadlock is one of the first
	conditions that you should check for.

Suspending, Resuming, and Stopping Threads

	